Eagle is a common name for some members of the bird family Accipitridae; it belongs to several genera that are not 
necessarily closely related to each other. Most of the more than sixty species of eagles are from Eurasia and Africa.
Outside this area, just eleven species can be found – two species (the Bald Eagle and Golden Eagle) in the United States
and Canada, nine species in Central America and South America, and three species in Australia.

Eagles are large, powerfully built birds of prey, with a heavy head and beak. Even the smallest eagles, like the Booted 
Eagle (Aquila pennata) (which is comparable in size to a Common Buzzard (Buteo buteo) or Red-tailed Hawk 
(B. jamaicensis)), have relatively longer and more evenly broad wings, and more direct, faster flight – despite the 
reduced size of aerodynamic feathers. Most eagles are larger than any other raptors apart from some vultures. The 
smallest species of eagle is the South Nicobar Serpent Eagle (Spilornis klossi), at 450 g (1 lb) and 40 cm (16 in). 
The largest species are discussed below. Like all birds of prey, eagles have very large hooked beaks for tearing flesh
from their prey, strong muscular legs, and powerful talons. The beak is typically heavier than that of most other birds 
of prey. Eagles' eyes are extremely powerful, having up to 3.6 times human acuity for the martial eagle, which enables 
them to spot potential prey from a very long distance.[2] This keen eyesight is primarily attributed to their extremely 
large pupils which ensure minimal diffraction (scattering) of the incoming light. The female of all species of eagle 
known is larger than the male.

Eagles normally build their nests, called eyries, in tall trees or on high cliffs. Many species lay two eggs, but the 
older, larger chick frequently kills its younger sibling once it has hatched. The dominant chick tends to be the female,
as they are bigger than the male. The parents take no action to stop the killing.[5][6]

Due to the size and power of many eagle species, they are ranked at the top of the food chain as apex predators in the 
avian world. The type of prey varies from genus to genus. The Haliaeetus and Ichthyophaga eagles prefer to capture fish,
though the species in the former often capture various animals, especially other water birds, and are powerful 
kleptoparasites of other birds. The snake and serpent eagles of the genera Circaetus, Terathopius and Spilornis 
predominantly prey on the great diversity of snakes that are found in the tropics of Africa and Asia. The eagles of the
genus Aquila are often the top birds of prey in open habitats, taking almost any medium-sized vertebrate they can catch.
Where Aquila eagles are absent, other eagles, such as the buteonine Black-chested Buzzard-Eagle of South America, may 
assume the position of top raptorial predator in open areas. Many other eagles, including the species-rich Spizaetus 
genus, live predominantly in woodlands and forest. These eagles often target various arboreal or ground-dwelling mammals
and birds, which are often unsuspectingly ambushed in such dense, knotty environments. Hunting techniques differ among 
the species and genera, with some individual eagles having engaged in quite varied techniques based their environment 
and prey at any given time. Most eagles grab prey without landing and take flight with it so the prey can be carried to 
a perch and torn apart.[7] The Bald Eagle is noted for having flown with the heaviest load verified to be carried by any
flying bird, since one eagle flew with a 6.8 kg (15 lb) mule deer fawn.[8] However, a few eagles may target prey 
considerably heavier than themselves; such prey is too heavy to fly with and thus it is either eaten at the site of the 
kill or taken in pieces back to a perch or nest. Golden and Crowned Eagles have killed ungulates weighing up to 30 kg 
(66 lb) and a Martial Eagle even killed a 37 kg (82 lb) duiker, 7–8 times heavier than the predating eagle.[7][9] 

Authors on birds David Allen Sibley, Pete Dunne and Clay Sutton, described the behavioral difference between hunting 
eagles and other birds of prey thus (in this case the Bald and Golden Eagles as compared to other North American 
raptors)